# Interfaces and Abstract Classes
### Goals:
    What is an interface?
    What is an abstract class?
    How are they different/same?
### Motivation:
    Want objects to interact with each other

## Interface
    list of methods that a child class must impliment
### API - Application Programming Interface
    example:
        *** Applies to Project2****
        <<Interface>>
        Animal
            Methods:
                breath()
                eat()           <---- only contains name of method
            Dog...
                grow fur
            Fish...
                lay eggs
        Implement these in the child class. Must have breathe and eat method
            fish breath() + dog(breath) are NOT the same
    () tell us the details of the method
### In Java
    public interface Animal{
        void breath()
        void eat()
    }
    // Concrete Class
        public class Dog inplements Animal{
            //attributes
            String name;
            int age;
            .
            .
            .
    // Constructor
        .
        .
        .
    // Methods
    public void breath(){
        print(preath)
    }
    public void eat(){
        print(eat)
    }
        }
    Must have these implementations of methods in the interface

#### Quiz Alert:
    Interfaces allow multiple inheritance

    <<interface>> pet
        cuddle()
    Dog is going to inherit from both of these:
        needs cuddle method in dog
### In Java
    public class dog implements pet, Animal {
        //attributes
        //constructor
        //methods (at least 3)
    }

## Abstract Classes:
    define methods without implementation BUT have the option to implement in the parent class.

    Abstract Class 
        Animal
            breath()
            eat()
            blink() <---- can provide implementation here
        Dog class:
            breath()
            eat()
            blink() - this is already defined, no need to redefine it
### In java
    public Abstract class Animal{
        //attributes
        //constructor
        //methods
            breath()            
            eat()           ^<---------- define in child class
            public void blick(){        <------- defined here
                provide implementation
            }
    }
    public class Dog extends Animal{
        //additional attributes
        //constructor
        //methods
            breath()
            eat()       are implemented here
    }

## Interfaces vs Abstract Classes
     Both give a list of methods

     Can we implement the methods? Only in Abstract Classes
     
     Can we allow for multiple inheritance? Only in inheritance.
     